ShareSync Ride-Sharing Platform
Leroy Freeman, Serenity Vang, Saif Khan and Ahmed Abddi

General Information

A state-of-the-art ride-sharing service called ShareSync aims to transform transportation in New York City's busy metropolitan environment. ShareSync is a dynamic, user-focused service that strives to give locals and guests alike affordable, practical, and environmentally friendly transportation solutions.

Experience the mobility of the future in the never-sleeping metropolis by signing up with ShareSync. One ride at a time, we're dedicated to improving the efficiency, safety, and environmental friendliness of New York City's roadways.

Purpose
Design a dynamic Database System for ShareSync ride-sharing platform. 

Problem Statement

The standard procedure of ShareSync when it comes to storing data such as driver, passenger, payments, trip management (start and end time), and location relies on the customers and drivers.

However, ShareSync has an issue of anomalies resulting from data redundancy because of not having an organized system that tracks the data of drivers and customers.

Solution Statement
•	Employ unique identifiers such as phone number, to distinguish customers, addressing issues with multiple profiles with similar names and enhance data verification procedure.
•	Incorporate normalization techniques to organize drivers and customers data and allow for easy tacking for all data like driver, passenger, trip management, etc.


Scope & System Overview
Project Name: ShareSync Ridesharing Platform
The ShareSync Ridesharing Platform will:
•	Streamline data management to eliminate data redundancy and improve data consistency.
•	Facilitate unique customer identification through phone numbers.
•	Improve the overall functionality and reliability of the ShareSync ride-sharing platform.


The system uses MariaDB as its database storage. 

The main functionalities of the system are the following:

•	Adding, editing, and deleting data
•	User Registration and Profile Management
•	Driver and Vehicle Information
•	Scalability and System Maintenance 

Business Rules

•	A CUSTOMER authorizes one TRANSACTION and only one TRANSACTION may be authorized by a CUSTOMER.
•	A TRANSACTION can generate many TRIPS and each TRIP is generated by only one TRANSACTION.
•	A DRIVER may travel from one-to-many TRIPS and each TRIP is traveled by only one DRIVER.
•	A DRIVER can drive one and only one CAR and only one CAR may be driven by a DRIVER.
